(theme music plays)
Homeopathy can best be described in Quantum terms,
and it's effectiveness is profound.
I only recently began experimenting with homeopathic
remedies and was so impressed,
that I felt the time was right and the place was right
to do an interview with a well known homeopath in England,
Henrietta Wells.
Part of the motivation is also that autumn is upon us
and this is when the establishment begins urging us all
to get a vaccine for the seasonal flu.
Henrietta says flu can easily be handled
with homeopathic remedies,
and wrote a book a few years back addressing this called
"Bird Flu: Are You Prepared?"
though it covers all types of flu.
(music plays)
Henrietta, I'm so glad we had a chance to meet with you
because I'e just started dabbling with Homeopathy,
it's not very popular,
commonly speaking in the United States yet
for reasons I, well,
we do know why,
but it's so powerful and when I'd heard about you
and your reputation in England I thought,
"we have to get an interview with you,"
so you can begin, just in the nick of time
before flu season among other things,
cluing us into the principles that work behind homeopathy,
and if we could just start with
a little bit of that to begin with and then go into,
the Hahnemann and how it was developed in modern times,
that would be wonderful just basically
starting with the principle.
Well, the main principal with homeopathy
is that a remedy or a substance
that is tested on healthy people
will produce certain symptoms,
and that picture of symptoms,
if you come across identical picture of symptoms
in a sick person,
it will cure that sick person.
If it's a different picture of symptoms, it wont.
And the word literally means
treating like and similar suffering, hoemopathy.
All these remedies are tested originally on people,
never on animals I might as well add,
and the symptoms
in great detail are noted down
and you get all these remedy pictures,
and, when you have a sick person
matching one of those remedy pictures,
then that remedy will cure that person.
And if you give the wrong remedy it won't.
It means a similar remedy,
conventional medicine uses opposing remedies,
and this argument has gone on for centuries literally,
from Hippocrates,
and for many centuries been argued about
whether you should use similar or opposing remedies,
but that is very seldom mentioned in any media interview
on what homeopathy is all about.
In fact usually all they talk about is potencies,
and the fact that they said there's nothing there
which caused a raise, and (other speaker interrupts) yeah,
but, I think there was an interview last week in Scotland,
three or four people all being interviewed
on homeopathy and whether it worked or not,
and nobody once mentioned similar remedies..
That's interesting, even I know that.
in the whole program.
Interesting.
It wasn't mentioned once and that is
the essence of homeopathy,
and without that you do not have homeopathy.
And this has even been reflected
in Allopathic medicine,
for example the use of Digitalis.
People don't understand that
that is more along the like (other speaker interrupts)
Well sort of, Digitalis is a..
Has been proved homeopathically,
and one of the key modalities of it
when you're using it as a homeopathic remedy,
and in our proving of this remedy is the fact that
when somebody's got heart disease and they're weak
and they're suffering and their heart is
beating irregularly or very violently or something,
it is said they want to sit dead still, they do not move.
You don't find them pacing up and down
or anything like that which you do with other remedies,
with digitalis they sit dead still,
and if they sit dead still
then digitalis is our remedy.
When doctors prescribe digitalis they have no idea
about this,
they just know that some people with heart disease
benefit from digitalis.
But they don't understand
the underlying principal?
They have no idea what they're doing,
absolutely no idea whatsoever.
And that has to do with the way
the homeopath becomes familiar with their patient.
I mean this isn't..
When you take a case homeopathic
the first consultation takes at least two hours
to do properly,
and you take an extraordinary amount of detail about people,
and if somebody has come to you with heart disease
you ask all sorts of questions about when the heart
does this and how they feel about that,
and one of the things they may or may not say
is that when their heart's terrible they have to sit down,
they can't move, they can hardly talk and so on,
and then you think "Ah, yeah, digitalis."
You know, as if they said
"I have to keep moving or I think my heart will stop
when it's chill send me home."
You know, and it's all these different things,
build up a picture and
get the right picture, get the right remedy, you're there.
Get the wrong picture they don't get better.
And this is really,
just hearing from a couple of friends of Scott's,
which is how we found you.
They've been with you for,
one of them's been coming to you
for at least 17 years she says,
and you've just done miracles with their lives
where the field of medicine weren't able
to do a thing for them,
some pretty serious conditions as well,
and this spans over physical but also
it goes beyond physical.
Homeopathy does it and treats on all levels
when you take a case,
your people come in with a physical thing usually
and you take all the details about that.
And when I say detail you're going into extraordinary detail
like what makes it better or worse?
The temperature, the position, pressure, touch,
and when they say pain,
I mean we're saying "so what kind of pain?"
And they say "oh it hurts!"
and I say "you know, that's not enough."
Is it stitching or burning or cramping or squeezing
or travelling around or what have you?
And you build up this picture
on a physical level of what's going on
but you also need to know,
what is going on emotionally.
And quite often, not always but quite often,
some great emotional thing happened
at the beginning or before
the physical symptoms came on.
And once constantly finding you go back to that
and find out what it was, how they felt at the time,
and the remedies by enlarge
will end up treating that the cause,
and that is what is getting them better
so when you're building up a picture of the patient,
you're building up an enormous..
It's a very detailed enormous picture,
you've got the Mentals,
what we rather rudely call the mentals
we're training the emotional side of things,
the Generals which are things like sleep
and food, reactions to food,
and then the Particulars which are
little bits of you.
My foot, my nose, my head, my whatever,
and everything about each of those things,
every detail is required
to build up a picture so you can imagine
it takes quite a long time, particularly first time,
and occasionally you get patients who
despite being desperate to get better,
find it very difficult to explain their symptoms.
And some are very resistant to
even telling you stuff,
but the minute somebody becomes resistant you're thinking
"Aha! What is it that I need to know?"
And you have to be very good at getting this information
out of them without them realizing
what you're about really,
because if people getting defensive about something you know
that whatever it is upset them a lot at the time and
you need to get that detail
or you will be in the dark.
You'll be fumbling around in the dark
when you're prescribing,
so it's on all levels.
Yes, and it would seem that, well,
in a lot of cases you must deal with people
that have chronic conditions,
and generally speaking chronic conditions if you go into
allopathic medicine, traditional medicine,
there's almost never an actual cure
for the base of a chronic condition,
and again it really must go back to the fact as you said,
so much might be trauma based on some level
that's not known even to the person who has a displayance.
It's often trauma based, but not always.
Sometimes in inherited we're gonna say
it's recreated tendency
to get certain conditions.
Sometimes it could be since a vaccination,
or since another disease that's been
what we call suppressed with conventional drugs,
and then a new disease has led on from that.
For instance if you get a child with eczema,
they put on cortisone cream
and their skin looks lovely, and mum is happy.
But a few months or years down the line,
they start getting asthma or bronchial problems,
and then they're on to puffers and stuff.
If you're taking a case
with somebody like that,
you're also going through their whole medical history
so you find out what happened.
You may find that the eczema happened after the DPT jab,
so you've actually got to go back even farther.
Oh interesting news!
So you'd start by treating the asthma which is on the top
which is what the child's come for,
and during the process of getting the asthma better
which is always possible,
to cure it I mean,
Though I think by law I'm not allowed to say that,
the eczema will come back as the asthma improves,
and then you have to treat the eczema.
Now unless you spend a lot of time
explaining it to the parent
that this is what's going to happen and they've got to
go with it cause this is how the body cures itself,
they can be quite upset about that
but you've got to explain,
and they've got to persevere.
After all it will have taken a number of years
to get the child to the stage,
with asthma, can't run, can't play sports I think
asthma attacks at three in the morning or whatever it is.
Very debilitating, very horrible drugs,
so you peel this onion, you get the asthma going,
you get the eczema going.
And what can happen at some stage,
if for instance it's following a DPT jab,
which does happen,
you're giving the most similar remedy you can find
to fit this child, for the eczema,
and suddenly it stops working,
or it works for a very short time.
So you look back and you say
"well, when did the eczema start?"
"Oh well, it's about when he was three months old."
And I said, "what happened when he was two months old?"
And they'll say, "he only had the DPT jab."
So you then give a remedy to do with..
DPT vaccine?
The DPT vaccine, yeah.
You give a remedy to deal with that
weakness that's been created by that,
followed by a remedy to deal with
a similar remedy as the child's eczema,
and they get better.
The child has no idea of what's been given,
it's just a nice little sugar pill,
and they were just going to tell me,
that that eczema wasn't caused by the DPT jab,
or that the asthma wasn't caused by suppressing
the eczema in the first place,
so you've got this constant sequence of events
that happens with conventional medicine,
which suppresses and suppresses,
and when somebody comes to have a homeopathy,
at what stage in the suppression
are you actually going to see them?
And sometimes, you know a chronic disease,
one of the complaints,
"oh it takes a long time to get better!"
But we are actually getting them properly better.
They're actually getting better
you're not just masking symptoms as happens with druidics?
No. Hiding the symptoms,
and you see allopathic medicine doesn't just hide symptoms,
it actually drives them inwards.
There's a thing called the Direction of Cure
which applies to all alternative therapies really,
but it's particularly important with homeopathy,
is that as you get better,
the symptoms go from within outwards,
So from your eczema to your..
your asthma to your eczema,
I mean that happens above downwards,
so obviously somebody's head program
is more important than their big toe,
above downwards from..
above downwards, and the reverse order in which they came,
it's self explained,
and from a more serious bit of you
to a less serious bit of you.
That is how you tell whether you're actually
getting somebody better,
if they follow these rules,
and that applies to all true cures whether it's homeopathy
or something else.
Whereas conventional medicine actually drives it inwards,
and people come with a more serious condition
time and time again.
You suppress a runny nose with some beastly squirty stuff
that Oedipus gave you,
and you can get sinus and headaches
and goodness knows what else.
With homeopathy you treat somebody who says
"oh, I'm always getting colds and headaches."
and you get a runny nose again, so..
Yeah, so it sort of goes,
it's sort of of in reverse as you said.
And as you're speaking about this
someone might have the idea,
"Oh goodness! It sounds like it takes a very long time
and a lot of visits to get something right."
Only in chronic things.
I was going to..
In an acute, you've got somebody,
I don't know 7th degree burns or something,
you can get rid of the pain in seven minutes,
and that can be a big burn and a nasty burn.
Half the time you wouldn't need skin grafts
and things like that.
Burns, injuries. I can remember last week some woman came in
and she put her back out or something,
and she was staggering in to my office,
and couldn't sit down, hurt too much,
so I worked out what she needed,
gave her a pill and she just walked out.
I know, it is amazing.
And she was in a terrible stupor,
she was about to go on holiday and sit in an airplane.
You know it's (both speakers laugh)
So it was a life saver for her?
I mean it had to work quickly.
In an acute, remedies work very quickly.
When it's a matter of life and death they work quickly,
and that's when the thing,
whatever it is come on very recently.
You know, cholera for instance,
bird flu for instance, anything like that.
Whereas if something has taken
decades to come on like rheumatism, heart disease
usually, tumors, all sorts of things take forever to grow,
they are slow to go because that is the nature of the beast,
and homeopathy has to cure in a similar way
to the patient.
So you've got a fast acting thing,
you've got a fast acting remedy.
Got a slow acting thing, it will go slowly.
Though sometimes I have to say I'm absolutely astonished
how quickly things can get better,
when I think they should be slow. (both laugh)
Well one thing I observed recently was
just for, I don't know why, but I went to
a store in California before we came here to England,
and picked up a few over the counter homeopathic remedies
for the trip just in case I got a chest cold
or anything happened along the way,
and as it ended up, as we arrived here,
Scott's parents who are 83 and 90 years old
both ended with real nasty chest colds,
and I said, "Well here I have these with me."
They didn't happen to have any, they had run out,
of this one particular thing,
and it was gone in 24 hours for both of them
and it was a very deep rattling cough.
I was shocked.
I think they were even shocked that it had gone so quickly.
Even occasionally now I'm still surprised after
years and years but on the whole
I expect it and then
forget what other people expect (laughs)
While everyone else is so surprised
and marvels at it.
Yes, I think "well that's what it does!"
Yes. Now let's backtrack a little bit and go
back to Hahnemann and the origins of modern homeopathy,
and go into this whole thing that comes up
as you say in that,
there was an interview of homeopaths recently on television,
and one of the things they bring up repeatedly is well,
"How could it possibly work when there are no
remaining particles of the original substance?"
That's very simple, but unfortunately..
But let's go into Hahnemann and why
that is so important essentially.
Hahnemann was born in 1755
and he was a very clever man,
he was a linguist and a doctor,
and much respected in the allopathic field,
but he got very disheartened and stopped practicing,
gave up because he found all the
treatments were so grotesque and ghastly,
and mostly killed people literally.
So he ended up, and he had hundreds of children,
well not hundreds but at least 10 I think,
and he ended translating medical texts,
and because he was a good doctor he commented on these
and so on and everybody,
all the doctors respected what his observations were.
And he noticed that the only drugs that actually worked
were the ones which in their crude poisonings,
were similar to the symptoms they were designed to cure,
and the more he researched, the more he translated
the more he saw that this was the case,
so he thought,
"Well, why don't we test these drugs out on people,
and see what symptoms they produce,
and all sorts of things, you know different minerals,
different plants, different everything,
and see what pictures of symptoms they produce
and then use those when we meet with those symptoms
on a sick person."
And he did this. He must have had some very loyal friends
who put up with all he gave them..
He must have! (laughs)
cause they're pretty grave on some of the readings.
Hopefully none died.
And he.. You know some of them did I think.
And he realized it worked,
so he got fright fixated, went back into medical practice
and was doing homeopathy all the time,
but he had a problem because
when you give a poison to somebody as we all know
from conventional medicine,
it can be very unpleasant and produce
some very nasty symptoms.
So he diluted them a bit,
and tried to give the maximum amount,
or the least amount that actually worked,
but at that stage it was still measurable
in terms of conventional opinion..
Yes, and potentially toxic?
And anyway, he was carrying on doing that
and one day a couple of, two or three of his remedies
fell out of his medical bag when he was travelling
in his carriage somewhere,
and had a thorough good shaking,
rolling about in the carriage floor.
He thought no more about it,
put them back in the bag at the end of the journey,
carried on working,
and then he noticed that those few remedies worked
a million times better than all the others.
Because they'd been shaken up?
(nods in agreement) And he thought,
"what is going on here?"
He was completely puzzled, but being so enterprising,
inquisitive sort of person,
he then started diluting remedies and shaking them up
to see whether it happened to the others,
or other remedies or whether it was just a one off,
and sure enough it applied to all his remedies,
so he then started diluting and shaking them,
what he called succusing them,
in a very meticulous way.
The scales were very carefully thought out,
and providing you succus or shake the remedy
at every stage with the dilution,
they become more effective, more potent,
and if you don't do that they just become more diluted
and more ineffective,
and it's absolutely brilliant,
it's an absolute fact that the higher potencies homeopathy
are the things that do the really incredible cures.
I mean sometimes you only need a low potency,
but if they weren't potentized,
if they weren't energized in this way,
they would be inefficient and not very good,
but the minute you potentize them,
also could be the succussion, they work.
Very strongly. It's absolutely fantastic.
It almost seems like you'd say
potentization of the pure information,
because again when you get to where it's diluted out
where you have no remaining particles
of the original substance,
all that's left really is the informational imprint?
Well, it's actually explained by Quantum Physics
very well.
Quantum Physics, cause Hahnemann didn't know that,
cause Quantum Physics wasn't sort of discovered
till I guess about in the 1930's.
That basically proved that matter
isn't a solid, passive, inert,
boring old substance doing nothing,
it's actually full of vibrating rhythmic particles,
not necessarily whizzing around but moving around
and if you then start succussing them,
quite energetically and with homeopathy,
it's not just a feeble little shake,
it's a real hard (bangs palm)
I know I'm not allowed to do that, (laughs)
Not in front of the mic but yes.
It's supposed to be done 40 times or something
between each thing.
It doesn't require much imagintion to realize
that these colliding particles actually are producing energy
and what I find fascinating is if you freeze remedies
they produce different crystal patterns
according to what remedy and what potency they are,
so all those doubters who say there's nothing left,
you can freeze Belladona 200 and it will produce
a different crystal pattern from
freezing bryonia 200 or..
Yes, makes total sense.
(mumbles) you know, and it's so irritating
when all these people say,
"there's nothing there, there's nothing happening."
When we've known since 1935 or whenever it was
about Quantum Physics.
We've known forever that disease actually
is dynamic in origin because
we're not just a bunch of chemicals,
there is some energy, electromagnetic or whatever
you would call it,
holding us all together.
I guess without that we' be dead.
And with homeopathy you've got to have a dynamic remedy
to match the dynamic energy of a person.
To be truly homeopathic it's got to be dynamic,
not just a material substance. And..
It does seem very quantum in it's nature
when you start thinking about that.
Once the matter being removed, the very thing that
the reporters and such will hone in on to,
essentially debunk it.
It is the very part of it that they're missing
in the inquiry because this is where this
information is.
I just find it extraordinary that
you get even scientists saying, "oh, it can't be true!"
But they all know about Quantum Physics.
What's the matter with them?
They've gone brain dead while it's happening? I don't know.
It is quite extraordinary.
Well, we'll get into that part
of it in a little bit because we know it's very purposeful
that this is not better known in the United States,
and more properly used in Britain and other places
around the world as well.
After Hahnemann discovered this,
that was really the birth of then..
As it is today, yes absolutely.
As it is today.
Let's talk about when someone
uses a modern remedy,
it can come in a number of forms but the most common one
that I think we would see,
say over the counter if you go to the drugstore
and get a homeopathic remedy,
are in the form of little sugar pills.
How does that work? What is it actually made of,
and how is that information suspended?
Originally you have what we call the Mother Tincture,
which to get to the mother tincture it's
written down in great detail in the homeopathic form
it could be a how you do of each substance,
exactly what you do,
but basically it's the substance, the original substance.
It was proved, preserved in a very high,
I guess 98% alcohol, whatever.
And that is a mother tincture,
and quite often, obviously that is poisonous.
Not always, but (nods)
And how you make the potencies is that you take
one drop of the mother tincture,
and put it in with nine drops of alcohol
and succus it,
and that makes a 1X.
Being shaken?
Yeah, that makes a 1X
You then take one drop of 1X and put it
with nine drops of alcohol,
and that is a 2X,
you've got to succus it at each stage,
whether this is just a dilution,
and to get a 3X you get a drop of 2X,
and nine drops of alcohol and so on.
In England we call that the tenths range
which is X's,
but I think in Europe they call them D's
so I don't know what they call them in the states.
Another range of potencies is the centesimal,
which as ours is a C,
or if you see a number with no letter after it,
it is still a centesimal.
Like the common one you would see in the US
would be 30C.
Right 30, and quite often you can..
If you ever get a number alone, it always means a C.
It doesn't mean an X or anything else,
and that is one drop of mother tincture,
99 drops of alcohol and succussed to get a 1C.
2C is one drop of 1C, 99 drops of alcohol and succused
and you get a 2C.
So you're really getting pretty far away
from the original substances by now?
Oh yeah, and you can go up to however high you want,
30C, 200C.
All these at this stage are in a liquid.
You can either medicate the remedies,
I always medicate the remedies myself here,
but a pharmacist would do exactly the same thing
if you order Bryonia 30 for instance,
they'll have a bottle of unmedicated sugar pills,
and will put a number of drops
of the liquid remedy into that.
Oh I see!
And that's how gets by that,
and they can be in powders, liquids,
pills, tablets, whatever,
but you know it's not a very exciting bit (laughs)
that's how it's done.
I was wondering how that happened
with the sugar pills.
Then there's another range, the thousands range
where there's M,
and you can go up to 50M, 60M, (mumbles)
so you can go very high.
The important thing supposedly
for people who don't believe homeopathy,
and don't believe in this potency business,
is that round about a, somewhere between a 12X and a 24X
is when the material particle completely disappears,
and round about a 6C and a 12C,
so we do know where you can no longer
measure it in a material way,
but we don't want to because we actually know
that the potencies work.
Let's talk about it in reverse then.
What if someone were, say,
they did what I did and decided to just
self dose, right. I know.
No I didn't say anything.
I know you're being very polite
and not saying a word right now (laughs)
but let's say that a lot of people have done that
and will do it..
Yeah, lot's of people do it.
Because they also don't have access
to a good homeopath for example.
But let's say that happens and now you're at the,
over the 12X strength
so you don't have any of the original substance in.
Can a person hurt themselves or harm themselves
by self dosing on the wrong one or does it simply not work,
it just falls on deaf cells?
You would have to be very stupid for a very long time,
the only way you could produce symptoms
from taking a remedy,
let's say bryonia 30,
you would have to take it on and on
for months on end,
and then you would actually start producing bryonia symptoms
but nobody does that, and everybody antidotes.
These remedies are very easy to antidote,
so nobody does it.
I did once have a guy who was very vain.
I cannot remember what he came to me for,
but he did spend the whole time sort of titivating his hair
and telling me that I needed a haircut and things like that,
and he had taken arsenica
which is basically made out of arsenic.
I think he'd taken Arsenica 30 everyday for a year.
Why?
Because he thought it would make his skin beautiful,
and his skin was beautiful I might add (both laugh)
but he was very vain and
he knew what he was doing.
So he was dosing with arsenic for his beauty
He knew what he was doing,
but I've never come across anybody doing a thing
as silly as that (interviewer laughs)
and I'm sure I won't again.
And by enlarge with all these things is like you know
if people take the wrong vitamins,
but then a lot of people get bored with taking it
and stop after they're halfway through a bottle
and it never does any harm.
You really can't do harm with homeopathy.
And that's one of the beauties of it,
is that even in the worst case scenario
and under the worst care you can't hurt yourself,
but the benefits of what can happen with such a tiny amount
is just really astounding.
I have to say I'm completely intrigued with this now,
and so let's talk about
some of the protocol issues,
for example, I wanna talk about a couple of more
case scenarios that you've had to,
besides the fellow taking arsenic (laughs)
for his lovely skin.
I've forgotten about it. (laughs) He completely did.
Tell me a couple more of those
that have just been really astounding even to you.
We won't talk about the more mundane things
because you see results everyday from people,
but a couple of astounding situations.
The trouble is I'm not really astounded any more.
I know it'll work. I know that if..
Something that will astound us
who know nothing.
I know that if they give me the right information,
some people don't.
They're either not aware of it and it is a problem sometimes
but if you know you've got the right picture,
and you know the remedy that'll fix that picture,
and you've removed any unblocking,
inherited stuff and so on,
you know it'll work.
Well what about chronic pains?
Say a person has chronic lower back pain, for example,
which could be started by,
I mean it's origin can be any number of things.
Can be all sorts and could even be emotional, yeah.
So you just start unwinding?
The classic thing is somebody's sort of
probably done some ghastly
extra hard work,
skiing or gardening or carrying heavy things
or pushing something way beyond what they should have done
and they sort of stagger indoors.
The next morning they can hardly get out of bed,
you give a remedy and..
And might that be something more common
like an annacar or something that we do depends?
That would normally be rest.
But if it has it's basis in something
much more chronic?
What about if it's something that might have to do with
say poor nutrition, poor sleeping habits,
not enough hydration.
You would have to kind of assess all the way back
through all of that?
You have to do all of that,
and one of the most common things that happens
with businessmen and I'm quite sure that
they don't tell their colleagues,
is that they get diarrhea from nerves,
and they have to stop at every garage
on the way to a meeting,
because they're in such a state,
and they get to the meeting and they muddle through,
and loads of them come for that,
and women but at times it seems
men are more prone to bloatedness (laughs)
stuff that you don't wanna tell anybody,
but they have been told by their doctor,
that they've got IBS
because it comes and goes.
Oh, yes.
Then they've got no more IBS
when they're done it's ridiculous..
It's a case of nerves.
(mumbles) nervous.
And you give them orgonite and they get better.
I mean just like that.
Now you're bringing up something interesting
and I don't know because you see people about everything.
It's something I've just observed,
between men and women.
It seems women tend to be holding more
and tend to be more afflicted with constipation
and men seem to be more the other way where..
I've noticed in life around with people,
men are always running off to the bathroom
after their first cup of coffee,
and women are taking all these different things to try to
urge things along.
Is there any difference in..?
Not really, I think I treat both equally.
You do, okay? So much for that.
They're both very debilitating from whatever you've got.
We'll put that in the wive's tale
category then.
So, now let's talk about..
Actually I just think, eczema and dramatic.
I can remember once giving a
guy I treated for eczema for a while.
It didn't go on and he came back a few years later
and he walked in and said,
"Henrietta you've got to give me something now!"
I mean screaming in agony.
"I've got weeping eczema all over my body
and I'm not going to show it to you!"
He'd gone to a pharmacist and got what he thought
was the right remedy.
It was actually but I think
it had been antidoted or something.
So I gave him a remedy,
and he said, by the time he left,
he was already calming down.
I could see it calming down.
And you know eczema,
people have eczema for years.
Oh yes!
For years and years,
and they put this cortisone cream on,
and they keep on having to put it on and it thins the skin
and makes you look 90 when you're only 35,
you know it's terrible.
But he, every time I see him now for whatever,
he comes and says,
"I'll never forget that moment Henrietta
when you gave me that remedy."
To take away suffering that quickly.
He couldn't believe. He said
"That must be in my imagination that within seconds
I started feeling better."
I've done that with asthma types,
you know people come in
and they're wheezing away and
if it's a child the mother is saying
'We must go to hospital!"
I say "Good, sit down. Calm down."
And I can work out what they need,
give them a remedy within 10 minutes,
everything's calmed down and
they walk out and the will always,
forever have to say, "I'll never forget that moment,
because every occasion previously,
I've ended up in hospital."
And you know asthma is a very horrible,
(in unison) very frightening.
very frightening thing.
I mean that's really dramatic.
Yes it is.
Henrietta what about cancer? What about tumors and the like?
That's such a big one. The big C is the big scare.
I have to say I'm not allowed to say
anything by law about it.
That's true.
You're not allowed in this country to even talk about it.
At all. I mean all I can say is..
Have you ever dealt with it and had clients?
Yes, often.
Often? Okay good.
And I've seen lumps get smaller,
but I'm not allowed to say more than that.
Okay, we will avoid that.
I know that's very touchy.
And let's talk about that now, let's just go into it.
In the UK I know homeopathists are having a difficult time,
homeopaths are having a difficult time.
There seems to be almost a concerted campaign
to discredit them.
I think homeopathy is more well known here,
generally speaking among the public,
than it is in the United States.
There it's just been more or less bypassed it seems,
to a large extent.
What is going on with that?
It looks as though with all the current
financial situation,
the government doesn't really want to
fund homeopathic hospitals any more,
and the best way to get rid of them
is to be derogatory about homeopathy,
and run it down as much as you can,
and therefore a wonderful excuse to
get a few more million to form something else
and not waste it on homeopathy in hospitals.
There aren't that many hospitals left in homeopathy,
that do homeopathy and most of them are
just out-patients.
But nevertheless, for the people who can't afford it,
it's very important.
All homeopathy is private though we charge
as little as we can.
We do have to live (laughs)
True, you have to toil for yourself.
And you know for a fact that a plumber
owns considerably more than I do.
And the way of getting rid of these hospitals
quickly and easily, and not waste money on them
is to be thoroughly derogatory about homeopathy.
It is very extraordinary.
I also think that the drug companies are very powerful,
probably not throughout the world but in my own experience
with this country.
And they spend a lot of money on developing drugs
and they have to go on and on developing new drugs,
and they don't want
homeopaths coming along and being successful,
and they don't like it when we're successful.
Whether they actually know that 90% of our patients
come from people who've failed
with conventional medicine,
and they may have been trying conventional medicine
for decades before they come to us,
and then we get them better.
Whether they actually know that I don't know,
but it is a fact.
We treat their failed cases,
and if we started with people before
they became a failed allopathic case,
the treatment would be quicker and easier
and nicer and all the rest of it,
but I'm quite sure the drug companies are very threatened
there are more homeopaths around
than there used to be when I started out 30 years ago.
It really wasn't very well known,
it was in a sort of waning situation
and then there's been a great surge of it,
and I think it's probably unfortunately going to wane
because of the bad press we've had.
Oh let's hope not.
Let's hope people have gained a little more
understanding and sophistication.
You know, this has gone on for years.
It's that the homeopathy works is what wins massively
and if you look at the studies,
study the history of it it has always happened,
and I think maybe,
just maybe, that's what's going to happen.
The other thing is that when
a busy GP doing allopathic medicine
gets a lot of information for their new drugs
from medical magazines.
Our medical magazines are rarely funded by their advertising
and the advertising is paid for by the drug companies,
so they cannot ever publish
perhaps more truthful results of some scientific experiment
or drug testing experiment.
They have to publish only their successes.
Now how many failures are there for each drug?
Well one only needs to look at the list
of side effects from each of the drugs to understand that,
which is pathetic and yet at the same time,
my understanding if it's still true,
certainly the royal family has used homeopathy for..
They've always used homeopathy.
For a good long time.
They have access to the best and that's their choice.
And this is true also in some of the more
elite families and circles in the United States.
They would't touch allopathic medicine,
even though they may be primary
shareholders in the drug companies for example.
Yeah, there's a bit of a conflict there,
but when you think about it in this country,
practically all homeopathy you have to pay for.
Practically all allopathic stuff comes for free,
yet people still would rather choose homeopathy,
those who do.
It must be doing something pretty powerful for them
for them to make that decision,
when we could have meds and they don't have to pay for it.
The other thing I find absolutely fascinating
is an enormous percentage of my patients,
are self employed.
Self employed people cannot get ill,
because if you're self employed,
particularly if you're a one man band,
you don't get ill.
You go on and on,
and I find it fascinating that
they're nearly all self employed.
Yes. And so again,
when you're looking at the subtlety and complexity
of how each one of these works,
to have someone like you available
where they can come to you and you can
help them through their medical situations year after year,
I'm envious of that,
that they have you and there are others like you,
and I'm sure there are in the US,
I just haven't come into close proximity with them yet.
I'll ferret them out after we get back however,
but again you're looking at you go to a doctor's office
with say, the seasonal flu,
whatever that might be in a particular year,
and most of everyone that comes into their office
on their interval of seven to 10 minutes maximum
they spend with the client,
they'll tap your ear, listen to your chest,
ask you a couple of questions,
you all go out with the same prescription.
It has to have varying degrees of effectiveness,
when it's so haphazard,
it just the latest that the drug company has
brought around and sampled to the office lately,
and with you who could be one of,
I mean there are hundreds of homeopathic remedies literally.
For flu, literally hundreds.
I know, it's amazing!
But you have to learn to,
well you know, homeopaths that's what we do.
We learn to recognize the drug picture
of somebody sitting in front of you.
The other thing that's important to remember is that
the iller somebody is,
the more acute the illness is,
and the more dramatic the symptoms are,
the stronger the symptoms are,
the easier it is to choose a remedy.
But if somebody's just got the beginnings of a cold
or a bit of an ache here or there,
it's actually quite difficult to choose a remedy,
but the minute somebody is seriously ill,
cholera is easier to treat than a weak or a pathetic cold.
That makes sense,
there's more information there, it's very obvious.
And when something dramatic,
patients come in and do the remedy.
They don't even know they're doing it,
I mean particularly small children.
They come in and act it out,
I don't have to ask any questions, just watch them.
It's beautiful, really.
It is. We, now here,
we're in the fall of 2010,
and we're coming up to flu season
and I know that they were,
you know, there was some rattling about
yet another kind of devastating flu
that's supposed to sweep through the United..
Yeah, I know, I don't get either one of us
confirm that one (laughs)
These devastating flus that are expected to begin
ravishing the population but
you in response to this,
you wrote a book called "Bird Flu: Are You Prepared?"
And it's really beyond just bird flu.
Can you talk about the essence of this book?
Well I wrote it because of all the hype about bird flu
and really the book covers any serious flu
which can turn into a serious gut problem or pneumonia.
I don't mean just aches and pains,
you can have pretty horrible aches and pains too,
but those are the three different types that people can get.
More than one type all in one go.
Basically what I've done in that book is a little bit
of explanation about homeopathy
and it's history of homeopathy,
and a bit of a lesson on how you prescribe,
how you choose your remedy.
When to stop a remedy, when to start a remedy,
when to change a remedy,
when to go up in potency and all this kind of thing,
but the chief thing is learning to choose a similar remedy,
cause if you don't choose a similar remedy,
you're not going to get anywhere.
And a lot of people say
"Oh homeopathy didn't work. I took bryonia for my cough
and it didn't work!"
And I say, "What kind of cough was it?"
And they say, "It's very loose
and I was coughing out green stuff."
I said, 'Uh uh. Bryonia is not loose
and it does not cough up green stuff.
Byronia is a very dry cough
that you cough the minute you move, or talk or eat,
and you're very thirsty and things like that,
but if you keep still,
you don't cough and it travels
very quickly down to your lungs.
That is a bryonia cough. Not what you've got."
And people are very quick to say,
"Oh, homeopathy didn't work for me,"
but they basically took the wrong remedy.
And the wrong remedy which is not similar,
will never work. It can't work.
Obviously a person needs to be able to
understand their own symptoms better
which I would guess that's partly why you wrote these books
because not everybody is going to get to a homeopath
but still wants the benefit of using the remedies.
Let's talk about a person that,
say it's flu season now,
and you start feeling the normal symptoms,
let's say it's the chesty kind of flu,
really nasty, ravaging the bronchioles and so forth.
What would you have a person do?
It doesn't really matter what the symptoms are,
but the..
In my book I've explained for you good people,
you write down a list of your symptoms,
and if you write down a list of your symptoms you will
inevitably write down the things that you find
most unpleasant first so we know
in order of importance of things already, what's going on.
Then you have to take each sypmtom
and look at it in a homeopathic way like,
does the position I sit in make a difference?
Or what position am I sitting in?
Do I want to lie down, am I walking around,
am I sitting still?
Do I want the curtains drawn and lie in the dark
or do I want the lights on and the curtains open,
do I want fresh air?
Do I want to be warmed, I want to be covered up?
Do I not want to be covered up?
Have I got a raging fever and still want to be covered up?
How peculiar is that?
Do I want to put my head out of the window
and have fresh air but be covered up?
What color are the discharges?
Or are they bland or acrid,
what kind of pain,
and you have to think of every kind of pain
and then you do want to rub that pain or not rub that pain,
or bandage that pain or put something cold on that pain
or something warm on that pain.
Anyway, the modalities, the questions are endless,
but usually you come up with quite a number
of really strong symptoms,
which as I said in that book,
you can fill in a chart.
It's got all the possible remedies or
the most likely remedies for a nasty flu.
You fill them in and you will see a number
of remedies most strongly indicated,
and at that stage you then look at those
say three remedies and you'll realize one of them is,
actually doesn't really fit.
Then you look at the other two and you make a decision.
The reason I wrote the book really,
is because people who are into homeopathy
need more knowledge.
One needs to educate the general public
in the things that they can do themselves,
not in the things they can't do.
You shouldn't, for instance,
treat your cuts or your cirrhosis or your asthma yourself.
You should go to a homeopath.
You will get very disappointing results
(interviewer laughs and agrees)
but when it comes to a flu or measles
or mumps or whatever,
you can do it yourself,
if you learn to do it properly.
And that's what this book is instructing people to do.
The other thing you've got to understand is that
in a pandemic,
if it is as bad as we would like to believe,
and we have no idea whether it
would have been or could be,
but probably could be,
we have to be ready, see.
To think that anybody would get to hospital,
because the hospitals would be full.
To think that anybody is ever going to come and rescue you
when in a bad pandemic,
you know, dream on. They won't.
I mean, look at these poor wretched people in Pakistan,
they've all got cholera from the floods and (mumbles)
It takes forever to get to rescue people in a disaster,
and when you've got a pandemic, a flu,
half the people who will come rescue you probably got flu.
And when you look at the flu of 19,
when was it 1918? Whenever it was.
Something like 50% of those, over 50% of those
who got it died.
That's a lot of people.
And they died very quickly.
You know, you could fall ill at 10 o'clock on Monday morning
and be dead by Tuesday night.
There isn't time, and you've got to have
you remedies at home, in the right potencies.
You can't send off for them
and then three days later they arrive,
it could be too late,
which is why I've written that book.
Because you can have the remedies in your house,
you can use them, you can read it long before
the pandemic comes.
And get some of them being (cut short)
You can get familiar with using homeopathy
for little things.
People learn by just doing it, basically.
And they learn, they treat their children for teething,
or for a fever or something,
or ear ache and all that kind of thing which is in my
other book, that one.
And people learn what kind of personalities
and what kind of remedies suit their children
or their husband or like whatever.
We'll always have those remedies in the house anyway,
and you know most of them won't go anywhere without them.
They won't go on holiday without them,
they wont, you know, move without them
in their handbag or something,
but with this flu thing,
you need remedies possibly in much higher potencies,
possibly remedies you've never used before,
and in this book it's explaining all of that.
So it's called "Bird Flu: Are You Prepared?"
Where can they get the book?
Mostly just from me actually, that one.
Okay we'll put the information..
And I think it's on the internet.
We will put the information..
I think it's on the internet as well.
It is written for people who have no knowledge of homeopathy
that one because,
a lot of people make a mistake with homeopathy
of just looking at the remedy pictures and saying
"Oh, no it's not that one, or this one.
Oh yes it's that one! let's go for that one."
And what they haven't done is take the case properly,
analyze it properly,
and choose a remedy properly,
and unless you do it in the way I tell you how to do it,
which is how we do it as homeopaths,
you will miss out important symptoms,
you won't get the similar remedy
and you won't get better.
You have to do it properly,
and a lot of people with sort of minor things
don't do it properly,
and I spent a lot of time boringly lecturing my patients,
saying that they've done it all wrong and how to do it right
which they don't all,
some like and some hate me saying that,
but they learn.
The whole point of being a homeopath,
you're not just getting people better,
you are actually educating them
to use homeopathy in their home,
because if you can use it for acute things,
you actually prevent a lot of chronic things developing.
Both those books are written for acute things
and not for chronic things.
I don''t touch chronic things,
although a lot of homeopaths do,
and I think it's a mistake that actually,
because you need to know..
Too complex..
so much, there's so much inherited stuff,
it's very difficult to analyze yourself emotionally.
It must resound honest enough with ourselves
to do that well enough,
and I treat lot's of homeopaths.
They don't treat themselves, they come to someone else.
If you could treat yourself you would
for something like that, but on their own,
people recognize that that's not a good idea.
Well now, let's say,
we'll have the information available so people can
find the books which I think is important right now.
We really need to take personal responsibility
on every level for our own health now..
I mean that is actually what homeopathy does.
It makes people take responsibility themselves
and not be relying on other people,
not at every sneeze rushing off to the doctor
and saying "Help me."
You know, you stop and think and do something,
and actually it empowers people.
Yes it does empower people.
I was going to ask you if you would just share
a few of the absolute No-No's.
Let's say someone is watching this
from somewhere in the world,
and they have a stash of homeopathic remedies
they picked up somewhere along the way and they think,
"Oh gosh! The next time this thing happens I'll use it!"
But there are some things that you really shouldn't do,
like coffee, and some of the No-No's.
There are certain things which antidote
homeopathic remedies,
and they only antidote them because the remedies
are in a potency.
It's a very..
Because you're dealing with an energy,
it is very easy to antidote,
and it's not a material substance.
That is the reason why they're easily antidoted.
The coffee thing
Hahnemann was very hot about
and quite rightly so.
Most people coffee antidotes, the remedies.
If you happen to be one of those very rare people
who can drink a really strong cup of coffee
at two in the morning and go straight to bed and fall asleep
probably coffee won't antidote your remedies.
But I've only ever had two patients like that
in all of my time doing this.
It is very unusual. Coffee does markup remedies completely,
peppermint does, menthol, eucalyptus, camphor,
and if you think about what those things are,
they're very strong smells.
The other thing you mustn't do is ever take
the lid off a remedy bottle,
say in the kitchen while your husband or wife
is peeling onions because the smell of that
could just wipe out the remedy.
Oh it changes it energetically, yes.
On the whole, once you get into the..
It sounds, you know, frightfully complicated and boring
but on the whole, once you've got used to the idea,
it's perfectly simple.
The only thing that can be very difficult is when you get,
say a wife who's perfectly keen on homeopathy,
so she drops off with her children to the local homeopath.
The father thinks it's a load of bankum,
so spends his whole life giving the children peppermints,
encouraging them to eat peppermints.
That is very tiresome,
That family dynamic, yes.
and when that happens and the children
are a little bit older,
they can get very bolshy about homeopathy
because they've had this dispute going on.
This is not good within a family,
I do not like that happening.
The other thing that completely can wreck homeopathy
is radiation from mobiles and X-rays,
and computers, laptops when they're not,
I mean it doesn't come down the telephone line,
you know, or whatever the call them.
I don't have one like that
so I can't remember what they're called (laughs)
Wireless.
That's right! Wireless.
You mustn't be within a meter of a mobile that's switched on
and the same for wireless computers,
because it will markup the remedies.
The other thing that is very problematic
for people who travel a lot
is the X-rays at security at airports..
I was just going to ask you..
because if your remedy goes through the X-ray thing,
the first zapping will contract it by about,
well, a percentage. It will be less efficient,
and the the second zapping, it's pretty much wiped out.
It slightly depends on the potency cause our higher potency
are more easily damaged than say a 12C or something.
Oh interesting. Guess that makes sense.
But the fact remains it does,
and one of the difficulties is
people who are very homeopathic
always have their little kit with them,
and it goes with them everywhere,
and this kit actually, when you think about it,
say you've got 40 remedies or something in there,
it actually comes to quite a lot of money.
And if every time you go through an airport
you're going to have to have a scene with the security men,
it's really frustrating.
So that is the problem?
And some of these people will not let you through,
they say, "Either it's X-rayed,
or you don't get on the plane. Simple as that."
And that is very terrible because it's expensive,
and we probably will have a lousy holiday
if we leave them behind, because you're dependent on them.
What we tend to do which helps just for daily life
is to keep our remedies in a lead bag,
which is great, you know,
if you go to a supermarket and you can happen
to always have a few remedies in your handbag in there,
so everybody can talk on their mobiles next to it,
and you can be relaxed and be fine,
or in the office or in your home or whatever.
What about going through security
with a lead bag?
No. You must not let them go through security
with the lead bag because what happens,
say you have done so,
they see this thing that shows up on
and they say "What is that?"
They turn the dial up higher and zap them more,
so what you have to do is take them out of the lead bag,
have a little row with the guy,
the security man and hope you win,
and then put them back in afterwards.
The other thing that some people do if the're feeling
they can't stand the row,
is to just take a few remedies with them,
and throw them away when they come home because they wont..
It's very difficult because you know
people with heart conditions or asthma or
tend to get tummy bugs
if they're away or something,
their whole holidays can be ruined.
They don't want to take the drug,
it is very trying.
One of the boring things the security men say,
"Oh the radiation in the sky when you're 30 thousand feet up
is just as bad."
Now this is an absolute load of piffle,
because if it were, all the pilots would be dead.
Why do radiographers when they X-ray you,
when you have an X-ray run out of the room?
You know, they couldn't move quick enough, could they?
It's that lead shielding on.
Statistically they cancer despite them running away,
and statistically the cancer in radio is often much higher
than any other medical profession,
any others in the medical profession.
You cannot say the pilots are dropping down dead,
or air hostesses dropping down dead
from radiation in the sky,
and this shows that people do not understand
about the different wavelengths
of X-rays and radiation,
you know, they're different strengths.
I think when my elder brother was a kid,
he's older than me I just had to point out,
when you had your shoes fitted in a shoe shop,
you put your feet in an X-ray thing
so you could see where the bones were, without your toes,
in relation to the shoes to see whether they fitted,
and then they realized how dangerous it was
and they stopped them, thank goodness!
Thank goodness!
I've never heard of that one.
Well so we're just..
(both speakers laugh and mumble)
Yes, 60th birthday last year so, yeah.
That was stopped.
Goodness!
And now this latest thing, because of
all this ghastly terrorism,
is that people appear to be,
being some kind of scanner which they're calling a scanner,
but has to be an X-ray of some kind.
It's not good.
We have to find our own way,
if we're using homeopathy and we're travelling
we'll have to figure this out and you've given us
some ideas.
I do have to say, sometimes it's good.
I remember once travelling from,
I can't remember where it was,
it was about five in the morning as it always is
when one's getting on an airplane.
And the security guy saw my stuff, his whole face lit up,
and said, "Oh yes! We all use it! (gasps)
What have you got here?"
He went through them and then he started asking me
about I think his wife's illness or something,
and you know it was at five o'clock in the morning
and was actually, completely on the ball.
But it was quite funny, it was complete contrast
to all the other hassle I normally get.
We won't count on that happening..
No you can't. (both speakers laugh)
Well, any final thoughts, Henrietta?
It's just a fascinating topic and you have some
resources for people to use
and I assume you'll also recommend some of the companies
that are really,
creating high quality remedies as well, right?
Not in this country.
In this book, and for this country.
And then people will have to do a little research
and people watching this
are very prone toward research anyway,
so any final thoughts?
The homeopathic pharmacists in this country are Helios
in Turnbridge Wells, that's a very good one,
Freeman's in Glasgow, that's a good one.
Ainsworth's in London,
there's one called Gail in Dorchester.
they're the main ones we use and they each have
different strengths for the remedies.
As a homeopath one uses one for one thing
and another for another thing
because they will do slightly different things but
they're all reputable and reliable,
and very good suppliers.
So for our English viewers,
there you go.
And also, they do send to overseas?
They send them all over abroad..
So we can use that in the states
and other countries in Europe.
But I do know there are some websites in the states
with some very peculiar remedies,
and I emailed one saying
"What is this you're talking about?"
and got such a peculiar reply.
So, you gotta be careful, to get the right thing.
Stick to the local ones.
Before we wrap up our conversation
are there any final thoughts that
we haven't covered yet that people need to understand
as they go on this journey of
exploring homeopathy?
Just don't go on poisoning yourselves
with conventional drugs,
because homeopathy is safe and it works
if you do it properly.
And it's always worth trying.
I might also add that, even if things look,
somebody is really ill, something grim,
and everyone's given up,
on one level homeopathy for the dying
can make dying much more comfortable,
and that is very important.
And the other thing is,
sometimes at that stage,
despite somebody being that ill,
you can even then, turn it around.
Well. I'm so glad we met,
and thank you so much for your time.
You can purchase a copy of Bird Flu: Are You Prepared?
at amazon dot com.
It has a comprehensive self test in it to determine
which remedies may be right for you
to eliminate the effects of flu.
Meanwhile you might also try finding a practicing homeopath
in your region, which is not that easy,
in the United States in particular.
The first visit is usually very lengthy as they
get to know you and your body,
and it's a bit costly but after that,
very affordable.
Until next time, thanks for watching CMN.
(closing music plays)